# Gender Bias in Headlines and Media over Time Across Countries
Investigating headlines from 4 countries and using statistical metrics and sentiment analysis to evaluate gender bias.

## Abstract

For our project we decided to focus on the portrayal of women's representations in news  headlines across multiple countries such as the UK, South Africa, USA, and India over a span of years.The overarching tend towards positive representations of women  is only a promising sign but yet negative language highlight the ongoing challenges in gender equality. Driven by the recognition of the media's influence on societal perception and stereotypes on women, we analyzed different sets of questions and datasets to uncover patterns in headline bias and sentiment. We aim to contribute to a more balanced, respectful and equitable representation of women in the media. 

Through our research, analysis revealed shocking revelations. We found that the UK had a higher bias in headlines compared to India, despite the historical advancements in women’s rights. This however could be attributed to the sensationalism and culture in UK news outlets, particularly in coverage targeting women and female higher ups. Moreover, we see a shift in the representation of women in headlines from years 2010 to 2021, with a more positive portrayal which indicates a progress in gender biases. However, in recent years we found a slight uptick in the frequency in negative words, which challenge gender equality. Again, these findings underscore the influential role of media in shaping societal attitudes and attribute to the efforts of promoting balanced and respectful representations of women. 

Furthermore, sentiment analysis on headlines reveal when using gendered words affiliated with women, both India and UK have neutral occurrences of these gendered words. Conversely, the USA showed a higher frequency of negative language, possibly reflecting underlying issues. This goes to show that gendered words used in media headlines vary by region, reflecting cultural nuances and social development levels. Overall our project offers insights into the complex interplay between media representation and societal norms, highlighting the need for vigilant efforts to challenge and reshape stereotypes. Recognizing the portrayal of women in headlines is important because of the reinforcement factor it has on how people think about females.
